Re: Twitter reply from @mwteitz

Matt Teitz <mwteitz@gmail.com>
11:21 AM (0 minutes ago)

to Kelsey.harkness 
Hello Kelsey,

My objective is for a journalist to write a similar story to what you wrote in Kentucky for TechHire Pittsburgh.  The Pittsburgh Tribune Review is a city of Pittsburgh newspaper: http://triblive.com/ which may more readily listen to you than I.  Excellent Article!  The information below attempts to be complete and accurate (albeit a bit random), but I may have inadvertently omitted information or made some mistakes.  My apologies in advance!

My name is Matt Teitz.  I am a former participant in TechHire Pittsburgh.  https://www.partner4work.org/programs/techhire-pittsburgh

As a long term unemployed person (over 3 years), I decided to participate in the program from January 2017 through May 2017.  I resigned from the program before its completion because I no longer felt the program provided a realistic pathway to a middle class salaried tech position.  However, I was a top student in the program during the time that I participated.  For verification purposes, here is some github computer software code repository website:  https://github.com/mwteitz.  I also was the only student to have a job interview with a software company apart from the web developer training company 'Mined Minds.'  I interviewed with the company, Blackhawk Network - https://www.giftcards.com/, and after not being treated as serious candidate with my background in the TechHire job training program, I quit the TechHire program.  Another reason for quitting was my feeling that Mined Minds was an extremely poorly run organization that did not objectively evaluate and help its students along a structured curriculum that is typical of any accredited educational organization, which Mined Minds is not.

Also, I was featured in Partner4Work, the local city of Pittsburgh government entity that created the public-private partnership with the software development training company Mined Minds, news article:  https://www.partner4work.org/news/techhire_codefest

I am a 2007 graduate of the University of Pittsburgh with an undergraduate degree in Political Science.  After resigning from this job training program, I intend to return to the University of Pittsburgh to pursue a Master of Science in Accounting degree in August 2018.  I will be taking the GMAT exam later this month.

Partner4Work's website (again, the local city of Pittsburgh government entity that created the public-private partnership with the software development training company Mined Minds):  https://www.partner4work.org

Mined Minds' website (again, the software development training company Mined Minds): http://www.minedminds.org/ .  Mined Minds is headed by a married couple, a British native who has PhD in Chemistry (not computer software related) from a UK University and an American woman who attended Ohio State University who obtained a computer engineering degree.  The rest of the employees of Mined Minds do not possess computer software related degrees or no degrees at all.

After having spent a good portion of this morning carefully reading your news article, http://dailysignal.com/2017/07/21/exclusive-2-million-government-program-gets-17-people-jobs/ ,  I have noticed many similarities from TEKY to TechHire Pittsburgh.

Similarities

1)  The software developing company, Mined Minds, is based out of Waynesburg, PA, which is a small coal town 60 miles south of Pittsburgh, that targets unemployed coal miners as the optimal candidates for its web developer job training program.

2)  Mined Minds began providing its training at a local community called 'Community College of Allegheny County' before its partnership with Partner4Work: https://www.ccac.edu/News-Stories/07/06/2016-CCAC-partners-with-Mined-Minds-Foundation-to-pave-the-way-for-new-programming-careers-in-Southwestern-Pennsylvania/

3) Mined Minds has also solicited National Media attention through NPR news, the Financial Times, local Pittsburgh television news outlets, etc.  http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/couple-teaches-laid-off-coal-miners-pa-code/

4) My classmates also have a feeling of bitter resentment that was described by many of the participants of the TEKY program.

5) Some students also quit previous jobs to pursue the apprenticeship before it was prematurely terminated

6) Many complaints from students were made to the government entity Partner4Work about the web developer job training company Mined Minds, but no action was taken to date

Differences

1) Our training class must much smaller starting at approximately 20 - 25 students

2) The job training was classroom based for 16 weeks as well, but NO PAY was provided during that time

3) Only 7 students were selected AND chose to participate in the apprenticeship with web developer training company Mined Minds

4) The apprenticeship was delayed in its commencement by 2 months (slated to be 6 months in duration)

5) The apprenticeship was terminated after approximately 10 - 15 days and all participating students were let go (The apprenticeship paid $15/hr to each student during that 10 - 15 day time frame)

6) No one to date has received a job in the tech industry directly related to computer programming and web site development (0% success rate)

7) The financial excesses (if they exist) of Mined Minds are unknown as relates to the spending of grant money

All of the following people have stories to tell.  John Erickson, listed below, was a previous employee of Mined Minds who was a teaching assistant in the TechHire Pittsburgh program.  The rest were fellow students of varying backgrounds, nationalities, age, etc.

My classmates (if you wish to reach out):

Brian Lewis 
blewis8958@gmail.com

Dover Hellfeldt
doverheld@gmail.com

Sheri Dyson 
dysonsl@verizon.net

Max Pokropowicz
pokropowicz.shinto@gmail.com

Mike Ciletti 
michaelciletti@gmail.com

Teela Subba 
tula.subba@icloud.com

Takhir Saklimov
t.salimov@gmail.com



Paid Teaching Assistant previously employed by Mined Minds:
John Erickson
ericksonjohn08@hotmail.com

As a group, we simply want to be heard that the TechHire Pittsburgh web developer training program was a failure.  During the same time as the web developer training, there was a sister program for software unit testing job training.  I do not know the outcome of that program.  On a personal note, while I am able to return to college to improve my long term career prospects, the same cannot be said for the other students.  Some students have college degrees, but from universities outside of the United States, which are only fractionally transferable to American Universities.  Also, language barriers exist for these people as English is not their first language.

If you need any more information, feel free to respond!  Thanks for your time!

Take care!

Matt Teitz
Twitter @mwteitz

Sorry for any typos!
